Now that you're an expert with diagnosis codes,
let's go over the exercise solution.
For this exercise, we used a public dataset provided by the State of California,
that uses ICD-10-CM codes for hospital inpatient encounters.
There is largely a review of the knowledge of
the structure of code sets that we went over in the lesson,
and please don't be intimidated by the diagnosis descriptions.
They should largely be similar to data
analysis tasks with pandas that we've done earlier.
So let's load up the dataset and get started.
Before I go into the solution,
let's analyze the dataset schema,
and look at the DataFrame example,
and you can see an example here.
You can see that the ICD-10 code is
there along with a more detailed description in another column.
This is a dataset that aggregates information annually,
and this particular dataset is for 2018.
So in the next three columns, total diagnosis,
primary diagnosis, and secondary diagnosis,
are the annual counts for these areas.
Primary and secondary diagnosis codes should now be familiar to you,
but please review the lesson if you need a refresher.
Now we're ready to look at the solution.
Let's start with looking for sepsis in the description.
We can use the string.contains
function to help us filter for codes that have this pattern.
Now, let's take a look at this table.
We can see that the table has a variety of codes that start with different letters.
So this result we found here has a lot of different types
of codes just for a simple term that you might think of sepsis,
and this illustrates the challenges of grouping and categorizing different codes.
Now we are ready to move on to the next question.
To find the percentage of primary diagnosis codes that begin with A41,
you must first find the codes that start with this pattern,
and you can see I use this function here instead of contains as I did earlier.
Then we take the sum of these values and then divided by
the total numbers for these values, and there you go.
Almost 96 percent of the cases can be mapped with just matching the three letters.
Easy. Shouldn't be any problem grouping these codes together.
Well, that brings us to the last part where we need to find the percentage of
secondary diagnosis codes that can be grouped with just the first character A.
Unfortunately, this does not map as well,
and only about 30 percent of codes can be grouped this way.
Please note that this is based off the volume of encounters for a year,
and not the number of unique codes, which is different.
This has the effect of weighting more frequent codes higher,
which is a simple method you can use to weigh codes based off of frequent statistics.
So this was a great exercise to learn some of
the challenges and work with the diagnosis codes further on real dataset.